---
layout: documentation
title: Grammar extraction
---
Grammar extraction (also called grammar induction, grammar learning, and phrase table extraction), is the process of building a [translation grammar](/concepts/scfgs.html), usually from a [word-aligned](/concepts/alignment.html) parallel corpus.

Broadly, grammar extraction procedures can be characterized as *offline* or *online* (this glosses over some details, but the distinction is worth understanding). `cdec` includes an online grammar extractor originally developed by [Adam Lopez](http://www.cs.jhu.edu/~alopez/).

 * *Offline grammar extraction* is the practice of creating a single, very large grammar from the training data that consists of all possible rules licensed by the parallel corpus.
 * *Online grammar extraction* is the practice of creating a grammar for a single sentence or document on demand; these grammars may be substantially smaller since they do not need to contain translations for words that do not occur in the input. Online grammar extraction usually requires representing the parallel corpus in a form that can be searched rapidly, such as a [suffix array](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Suffix_array).

## Per-sentence grammars

Since `cdec` does not support an on-disk representation for fast access to grammars that are too large to fit into memory, it is strongly recommended that you use [per-sentence grammars](psgs.html) in translation. PSGs are filtered from larger grammars so as to only contain rules to match a single sentence. Although these must be created for each sentence that is to be translated, they are small enough to be loadable very quickly from the [human-readable grammar format](/documentation/grammar-format.html).

## Online grammar extraction

Per-sentence grammars can be created directly using the tools in the `cdec.sa` Python package.

### Compile the training data

Use the tool `cdec.sa.compile` to compile a parallel corpus and word alignment into a suffix array that can then be used to quickly extract per-sentence grammars.

#### Command line options

 * `-c FILE.INI` - writes the configuration file to `FILE.INI`
 * `-b BITEXT.TXT` - the parallel data (one parallel sentence per line, separated by `|||`)
 * `-a ALIGNMENT.TXT` - the word alignment file (same number of lines as `BITEXT.TXT`)

### Extract grammars

The tool `cdec.sa.extract` generates per sentence grammars directly from the compiled parallel corpus. It reads sentences from standard in (one per line) and generates grammars in the specified directory. It writes the SGML marked up sentences that include pointers to the generated grammar to standard out. These can be read directly by the `cdec` decoder.

#### Command line options

 * `-c FILE.INI` - configuration file generated by `cdec.sa.compile`
 * `-g DIR/` - directory where the per-sentence grammars will be written
 * `-z` - gzip grammars. This is *strongly recommended* since the cdec grammar can read gzipped files.
 * `-j N` - run `N` processes in parallel

